Attrition in human resources refers to the gradual loss of employees over time. In general, relatively high attrition is problematic for companies. HR professionals often assume a leadership role in designing company compensation programs, work culture and motivation systems that help the organization retain top employees. 
Basics
To calculation your company's attrition rate, you divide the number of employees who leave in a given year by the total number of positions you have. For instance, if you have 100 positions available and 30 employees leave the company in a given year, your attrition rate is 30 percent. This may be high or low, depending on the industry. Retail, as an example, tends to have a relatively high level of attrition as an industry.

Concerns
A major problem in high employee attrition is its cost to an organization. Job postings, hiring processes, paperwork and new hire training are some of the common expenses of losing employees and replacing them. Additionally, regular employee turnover prohibits your organization from increasing its collective knowledge base and experience over time. This is especially concerning if your business is customer facing, as customers often prefer to interact with familiar people. Errors and issues are more likely if you constantly have new workers.

http://smallbusiness.chron.com/meaning-attrition-used-hr-61183.html


https://yourbusiness.azcentral.com/meaning-attrition-used-hr-14057.html

What Is the Meaning of Attrition Used in HR?

The meaning of attrition in a work environment refers to a reduction or decrease in the size or strength the work force, or a gradual reduction in labor occurring through means other than firing employees. Both of these explanations can be applied to activities addressed by human resources, and both can have positive and negative ramifications for a company. Human resources teams factor attrition rates into their department budgets to account for potential losses in productivity and the costs associated with replacing departing employees.

Reasons for Attrition
Attrition can be encouraged when it is part of a strategic business maneuver to reduce costs. It can also manifest itself when employees voluntarily leave their jobs. This can happen for a variety of reasons: employees may move or retire, take another job, be ill-suited to the position they were hired to fill, or want employment that offers a more equitable work-life balance. Others may experience a lack of the freedom or autonomy they require to perform at expected levels. Human resources professionals inadvertently encourage attrition when they condone or ignore maltreatment of employees by management.

Upside of Attrition
Some business strategies use attrition as part of a restructuring plan. Rather than carrying out traditional layoffs, some businesses choose to reduce their workforce through the more gradual means of attrition. This is less consequential to a workforce that contains employees approaching retirement age. When they leave the company, a replacement is not hired to fill the vacancy, and the job position may be retired. Some business owners and managers work with their HR professionals to create equitable positions into which remaining employees can potentially be promoted. This creates positive employment options that did not previously exist.

Downside of Attrition
When attrition occurs, the remaining duties and job responsibilities can burden employees and managers with additional duties with no increase in pay. Even if HR staff members distribute the extra workload throughout other departments, they may witness managers moving on to other companies. The potential for employment promotion may no longer exist when positions are retired due to attrition. Employee morale can suffer, a situation that HR should work to remedy before it becomes unmanageable.

Attrition Rate Calculation
The attrition percentage rate is determined by dividing the number of employees who left their jobs during a specific period by the average number of employees during the same period. Results can be computed for monthly, quarterly, biannual or annual periods. Consistent rates of attrition are viewed as the norm for a specific business. If high attrition rates remain outside the parameters of an accepted strategic business plan, human resources staff members may be required to evaluate the causes and find solutions.

